# The Developer's Manifesto

What we stand for

 1. Development is a science, so be scientific
 2. Development is an art, so be beautiful
 3. Never stop learning
 4. Never stop teaching
 5. Question if we are using the right tool for the job
 6. Have fun
 
# 1. Development is a science, so be scientific

We are scientists. We develop to the scientific method. We make
observations. We experiment. We improve.

There is no authority in science. No matter if we are the most junior 
developer, if we are right then we are right.

Question everything. Never trust anyone who says that something is just
because they say it is so. If you feel you don't have enough information 
to provide an answer, it is your duty to find that additional 
information.

The scientific approach is not a guess. We, therefore, must never
guess.

# 2. Development is an art, so be beautiful

We are artists. As humans, we intrinsically know that it is nicer to
inhabit a beautiful room than one that is less so. The more pleasing the
room is to be in, the more pleasure we have being in it. The same is 
true of our software.

As developers, we inhabit our software. Unlike everyone else, we walk
through it's corridors, live in the walls and can admire its' 
construction. No one should be forced to live in a house that is
unpleasant and we should not force other developers to live in software
that is ugly.

Beauty means different things to different people. For some, it will be
a consistent style. For others, it will mean test coverage. Others still
will place value upon brevity.

Like art, the definition of "beauty" is infinite.

Like artists, we should always strive to achieve it.

# 3. Never stop learning

No matter how good we are, we cannot know it all. It should be our
ambition that, when we look back at our past work, we ought to be able
to see ways in which to improve it.

It may be a small thing. It may be that you can see a massive
improvement. When we can't see any improvements, we have not grown. and 
we have stagnated.

The development landscape that is here today may not be how it looks in
5 years time. It is our responsibility to our profession, to ourselves
and to each other that we ensure that our abilities are kept sharp
through education.

# 4. Never stop teaching

No matter how junior we are, to a non-developer we are a superstar. We
have learnt how to make computers bend to our will. Never lose sight of
how complex even the simplest "hello world" would be to most people.

When teaching, we will explain it at the level of our audience. It only
serves to alienate our audience if we fail to explain concepts at their
level. Once alienated, they will always be alienated.

We may never inspire generations of future developers. We may never be
the mentor to a future development giant. But it is within all of our
power to inspire, mentor and teach non-developers about the power of
logical, analytical problem solving.

# 5. Question if we are using the right tool for the job

The hammer is a brilliant tool and has served humanity for well over
two million years. It's reliable, effective and one of the most perfect 
tools we have.

Unless you have a screw. Then it's useless.

As developers, we have a whole range of tools in our arsenal. There is
nothing more frustrating that having to hammer in a screw. We may have
preferences and biases as to which tool we use, but trying to hammer in
a screw is both wasted effort and inelegant.

The right tool for the job will change over time. What may be considered
the best tool today may be considered a poor choice tomorrow. As a
developer, it is our responsibility to question our choices and ensure
we have enough knowledge to pose the best questions. 

# 6. Have fun

Every developer first started developing as a hobby because simply
because it was interesting. The moment we stop the child-like wonder at 
how amazing it is to develop is the moment we cease to be a developer.

Remember the wonder we had when we first made a computer do something.
Those tasks are what we make computers do every single day of our lives.
Consider just how amazing development is and what permutations of things
out there that we cannot yet do.

How can we inspire others if we cannot even inspire ourselves?

Go and do something amazing.